
# cs111s2018-practical8-starter

Designed for use with [GitHub Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/), this
repository contains the solution for Practical 8 in Computer Science 111.

Since the Travis builds for this repository will initially fail (as evidenced by
a red &#x2717; appearing in the commit logs instead of a green &#x2714;), the
programmer is responsible for completing all of the steps needed to satisfy the
requirements for the assignment, thus causing a &#x2714; to instead appear in
the commit logs.


## Introduction

This assignment requires a programmer to implement and test a Java program,
called `PasswordCheckerMain`, that will produce textual output after reading in
a password from a file and then performing some diagnostic tests for this
password. This program will construct an instance of a class, call a method
provided by this object, and call a method, and then output the result of the
computation. Please see the comments in the source code and the laboratory
assignment sheet for more details. As verified by
[Checkstyle](https://github.com/checkstyle/checkstyle), the source code for the
`PasswordCheckerMain.java` and `PasswordChecker.java` files must adhere to all
of the requirements in the [Google Java Style
Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html).

The source code in the `PasswordCheckerMain` file must also pass additional tests
set by the [GatorGrader tool](https://github.com/gkapfham/gatorgrader).
Specifically, GatorGrader will check the following characteristics of your
implementation:

* The `PasswordCheckerMain` program must:
  * Contain at least five single-line comments and three multi-line comments
  * Call the constructor for the `Date` class
  * Call the constructor for the `PasswordChecker` class
  * Call the `println` method five times to produce the desired output

The source code in the `PasswordChecker` file must also pass additional tests
set by the [GatorGrader tool](https://github.com/gkapfham/gatorgrader).
Specifically, GatorGrader will check the following characteristics of your
implementation:

* The `PasswordChecker` program must:
  * Contain at least four multi-line comments
  * Never call the `println` method
  * Declare or use the `PASSWORD_MINIMUM_LENGTH` variable at least two times

When you use the `git commit` command to transfer your source code to your
GitHub repository, [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.com/) will initialize a build
of your assignment, checking to see if it meets all of the requirements. If both
your source code and writing meet all of the established requirements, then you
will see a green &#x2714; in the listing of commits in GitHub. If your
submission does not meet the requirements, a red &#x2717; will appear instead.
The instructor will reduce a programmer's grade for this assignment if the red
&#x2717; appears on the last commit in GitHub immediately before the
assignment's due date.

A carefully formatted assignment sheet for this project provides more details
about the steps that a computer scientist should take to complete this
assignment. You can view this assignment sheet by visiting the listing of
laboratories on the course web site.

## Learning

If you have not done so already, please read all of the relevant [GitHub
Guides](https://guides.github.com/) that explain how to use many of the features
that GitHub provides. In particular, please make sure that you have read the
following GitHub guides: [Mastering
Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/), [Hello
World](https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/), and [Documenting Your
Projects on GitHub](https://guides.github.com/features/wikis/). Each of these
guides will help you to understand how to use both [GitHub](http://github.com) and
[GitHub Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/).

To do well on this assignment, you should also review Chapters 1 through 4.
Finally, please read Sections 5.1 through 5.4 to learn more about conditional
logic constructs. Please see the course instructor or one of the
teaching assistants or tutors if you have questions about any of these reading
assignments.

## Commands

To get started in using the GatorGrader tool, you can change into the directory
for this assignment and type the command `./gatorgrader.sh --start` in your
terminal. Now, if you want to perform all of the checks that will automatically
evaluate your assignment, you can type the command `./gatorgrader.sh --check`.

Running this command will produce a lot of output that you should carefully
inspect. If the last line of the output indicates that GatorGrader judges that
there are no mistakes in the assignment, then this means that your source code
and writing are passing all of the automated checks. However, if the last line
of the output indicates that there are mistakes, then you will need to
understand what they are and then try to fix them.

You can also complete several important Java programming tasks by using the
`gradle` tool. For instance, you can compile (i.e., create bytecode from the
program's source code if it is a correct program) the program using the command
`gradle build`. There are also additional commands that you can type:

* `gradle clean`: clean the project of all the derived files
* `gradle check`: check the quality of the code using Checkstyle
* `gradle build`: create the bytecode from the Java source code
* `gradle run`: run the Java program in the command-line
* `gradle tasks`: display details about the Gradle system

To run one of these commands, you must be in the main directory for this
assignment where the `build.gradle` file is located. Then, you can type the
command in the terminal and study the output.

If the course instructor publishes a new version of GatorGrader and asks you to
access it, then you need change into the tool's directory by typing `cd
gatorgrader`. Then, you can type the command `git pull` to download the new
source code for the GatorGrader tool. If this command completes successfully,
then you can return to the main directory for this practical assignment by
typing `cd ..` and then continuing your work.

## Output

Your program should adhere to all of the requirements for the assignment and
pass all of the verification checks, and also produce textual output like the
following:

```
Janyl Jumadinova Wed Mar 14 11:16:18 EDT 2018

I will read in a password from a file.
Okay, I read in the password "computerscience2017".

Is the password "computerscience2018" a valid password? No

Thank you for using the PasswordChecker.
```

## Updates

If the course instructor updates the provided material for this assignment and
you would like to receive these updates, then you can type this command in the
main directory for this assignment:

```
./gatorgrader.sh --update git@github.com:Allegheny-Computer-Science-111-S2018/cs111-S2018-practical8-starter.git
```

You should only need to type this command once; typing the command additional
times may yield an error message but will not negatively influence the state of
your repository. Now, you are ready to download the updates provided by the
course instructor by typing:

```
./gatorgrader.sh --download
```

This second command can be run whenever the course instructor needs to provide
you with new source code for this assignment. However, please note that, if you
have edited the files that the course instructor updated, running the previous
command may lead to Git merge conflicts. If this happens, you may need to
manually resolve them with the help of the instructor or a teaching assistant.

## Travis

This assignment uses [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.com/) to automatically run
the checking programs every time you commit to your GitHub repository. The
checking will start as soon as you have accepted the assignment, thus creating
your own private repository, and the course instructor enables Travis for it. If
you are using Travis for the first time, you will need to authorize Travis CI to
access the private repositories that you created on GitHub.

## Requirements

The GatorGrader software that supports the checking of this assignment was
developed for the following software and versions:

* gradle 4.1
* java 1.8.0
* mdl 0.4.0
* proselint 0.7.0
* python 3.5.2

## Problems

If you have found a problem with this assignment's provided source code, then
you can go to the [Computer Science 111 Practical 8
Starter](https://github.com/Allegheny-Computer-Science-111-S2018/cs111-S2018-practical8-starter)
repository and create an issue by clicking the "Issues" tab and then clicking
the green "New Issue" button. If you have found a problem with the [GatorGrader
tool](https://github.com/gkapfham/gatorgrader) and the way that it checks you
assignment, then you can follow the aforementioned steps to create an issue in
its repository. To ensure that your issue is properly resolved, please provide
as many details as is possible about the problem that you experienced. 

Students who find, and use the appropriate GitHub issue tracker to correctly
document, a mistake in any aspect of this laboratory assignment will receive
extra credit towards their grade for it.

## Assistance

If you are having trouble completing any part of this project, then please talk
with either the course instructor or a teaching assistant during the laboratory
session. Alternatively, you may ask questions in the Slack team for this
course. Finally, you can schedule a meeting during the course instructor's
office hours.
